Rs oauth article (#32)
did-app/www: _articles/what-is-oauth-understanding-the-authorization-layer.md

---
layout: article
title: "What is OAuth? Understanding the authorization layer"
abstract: "A simple explanation of what OAuth is, how it works and what it is used for."
sitemap:
  lastmod: 2020-05-15
---

> OAuth is short for Open Authorization.  OAuth is a framework for token-based authorization on the internet. What does that mean?  Basically, OAuth is a way for websites to share private information with each other. Authorization tokens are issued which grants access to specific pieces of information hence the term token-based authorization.

Reviewer: internet -> web
This needs to talk about `OAuth 2.0` you can say from this point when we say OAuth we will be talking about OAuth 2.0.
" OAuth is a way for websites to share private information with each other" This is missing the fact it's a customers data, that is help by a website that is shared with another website.

I think some comment like the followin.
"OAuth 2.0 related but not compatible with OAuth 1.0, when talking about OAuth most people mean 2.0 but of course not all, and this is where much of the complication abount understanding OAuth comes from. 

Not can you always put a new line after each full stop. then comments can be more targeted.

> OAuth is short for Open Authorization.  OAuth is a framework for token-based authorization on the internet. What does that mean?  Basically, OAuth is a way for websites to share private information with each other. Authorization tokens are issued which grants access to specific pieces of information hence the term token-based authorization.

Author: ```suggestion
OAuth is short for Open Authorization.  OAuth 2.0 is a framework for token-based authorization on the web. What does that mean?  Basically, OAuth is a way for websites to share private information that belongs to an authenticated user of that website.  Authorization tokens are issued which grants access to specific pieces of information hence the term token-based authorization.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
**OAuth 1.0 and OAuth 2.0 are distinctly different.  When I refer to OAuth I am referring specifically to OAuth 2.0.  If you would like to find out more about the differences between versions 1 and 2 you can[ read the OAuth entry on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth) as the differences are not relevant to this article.**
```

> For example, let’s say you want your social media profile to share with a dating website your name, date of birth and height.  OAuth can be used to authorize the dating app access to those details on your social media profile.  The OAuth framework allows the social media profile to create an access token with certain attributes, such as an expiry date, which the dating website can use to access the data the token has scope for.

Reviewer: Don't use height that's not a real thing on any website. profile picture instead

Reviewer: Also you social media profile isn't the thing doing the sharing its the social media website. 
How about "For example, you want to share your social media profile with a dating website. OAuth can ..."

Reviewer: at this level of explination I would avoid using the work authorize too much. 
"OAuth can be used to grant the dating app access to your profile"

Reviewer: I find your sentences take quite a lot of digesting because of the number of peices. Is there any loss of clarity from "access the details of your profile" to "access your profile"

Reviewer: "The OAuth framework allows the social media profile to create an access token with certain attributes, such as an expiry date, which the dating website can use to access the data the token has scope for."

The previous sentence mentioned OAuth so just "The dating website will receive a secure token that it uses to request the data you shared from (your profile)/ (the social media website)"

> For example, let’s say you want your social media profile to share with a dating website your name, date of birth and height.  OAuth can be used to authorize the dating app access to those details on your social media profile.  The OAuth framework allows the social media profile to create an access token with certain attributes, such as an expiry date, which the dating website can use to access the data the token has scope for.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, let’s say you want to share your social media profile with a dating website.  You would like the social media website to share your name, date of birth and profile image.  OAuth can be used to grant the dating app access to those details on the social media website.  The framework allows the social media website to create an access token which the dating website uses to request the data you shared from your social media profile.
```

> This method allows websites to share only the specific pieces of information it chooses with other websites.  Before OAuth was invented, if two websites wanted to share information they had little choice but to share everything at an account level:

Reviewer: Not it the website, you the user of that website

Reviewer: > Before OAuth was invented, if two websites wanted to share information they had little choice but to share everything at an account level:

Where did you source this, it's not really what the problem was.

Reviewer: The problem was you had to give you log in details for the social media site to the dating app, which was a problem if you didn't trust the dating app

> This method allows websites to share only the specific pieces of information it chooses with other websites.  Before OAuth was invented, if two websites wanted to share information they had little choice but to share everything at an account level:

Author: ```suggestion
This method allows you, the user, to share specific pieces of information stored on one website with another website.  Before OAuth was invented, if two websites wanted to share information they had little choice but to share actual login credentials and therefore share all the information stored in that account.
```

> “Third-party applications gain overly broad access to the resource owner's protected resources, leaving resource owners without any ability to restrict duration or access to a limited subset of resources.”

[Source - The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework By the Internet Engineering Task Force](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749)

> OAuth is all about granting authorization to access private things.  OAuth is not used for authentication.  A mistake commonly made is to assume the ‘auth’ in OAuth stands for authentication.

Reviewer: DID.app is all about authentication, theres probably a comment that Authentication can be built on top of OAuth, and how to do this is standardised by specifications like OpenID Connect

Author: Totally.  I come onto this later in the article...

> OAuth is all about granting authorization to access private things.  OAuth is not used for authentication.  A mistake commonly made is to assume the ‘auth’ in OAuth stands for authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
OAuth is all about granting authorization to access private things.  OAuth is not used for authentication.  A mistake commonly made is to assume the ‘auth’ in OAuth stands for authentication.

DID.app is an authentication provider that works with the OAuth 2.0 framework helping to add an authentication layer on top of OAuth's authorization layer.
```
